The driver of a motor vehicle shall drive the vehicle as close to the left hand side of the road as may be expedient and shall allow all traffic which is proceeding in the direction to pass on his right hand side.
 The driver of a motor vehicle shall – when turning to left, drive as close as may be to the left-hand side of the road from which he is making the turn and of the road which he is entering • when turning to the right draw as near as may be to the centre of the road along which he is travelling and arrive as near as may be at the left-hand side of the road which the driver is entering.
 overtaking to the right, except as provided in regulation 5, the driver of a motor vehicles shall pass to the right of all traffic proceeding in the same direction as himself.
 The driver of a motor vehicle may pass to the left of a vehicle the driver of which having inducted an intention to turn to the right has drawn to the centre to the Road and may pass on either side.
 overtaking prohibited in certain cases, the driver of a motor vehicle shall not pass a vehicle travelling in the same direction as himself.
 The drive of a motor vehicle shall not, when being overtaken or being passed by another vehicle, increase speed or do anything in any way to prevent the other vehicle from passing him.
 The drive of a motor vehicle shall slow down when approaching such intersection, junction at which traffic is not being regulated, if the road entered is a main road designated as such, give way to the vehicles proceeding along that road, and in any other case give way to all traffic approaching the intersection on his right hand.
 giving way to traffic at road junction, the driver of a motor vehicle shall, on entering a road intersection, at which traffic is not being regulated, if the road entered is a main road designated as such, give way to the vehicles proceeding along that road, and in any other case give way to all traffic approaching the intersection on his right hand.
 Every driver shall on the approach of a fire service vehicle or of an ambulance allow free passage by drawing to the side of the road.
 The pedestrians have the right of way at uncontrolled pedestrian crossings.
 When any road is provided with footpath or cycle tracks specially for other traffic, except with permission of a police officer in uniform, a driver shall not drive on such footpath or track.
 No driver shall take a “U” turn where “U” turn is specially prohibited and on busy traffic road.
 If a “U” turn is allowed the driver shall show signal by hand as for a right turn, watch in the rear view mirror and turn when safe to do so.
 Every driver has to use indicator for directions and No load or other goods shall be placed on any vehicles so as to mask or otherwise interrupt vision of any indicator,lamp, registration mark or other mark unless a duplicate of the lamp or mark so marked or otherwise obscured is exhibited in the manner required.
 Every driver of a motor vehicle parking on any road shall park in such a way that it does not cause or is not likely to cause danger, obstruction or undue inconvenience to other road users and it the manner or parking is indicated by any sign board or markings on the road side, he shall park his vehicle in such manner.
 Drive a motor vehicle on roads declared “16 WAY” except in the direction specified by sign boards.
 • Drive a vehicle in a reverse direction into a road designed “16 WAY”.
 Where any road is marked by lanes for movement of traffic, the driver of a motor vehicle shall drive within the lane and change the lane only after giving proper signal.
 When any line is painted on or inlaid into the surface of any road at the approach to the road junction or to a pedestrian crossing or otherwise,no driver shall drive a motor vehicle so that any part thereof projects beyond that line at any time when a signal to stop is being given by a police officer or by traffic control light or by the display of any traffic sign.
 except for vehicles mechanically disabled motor vehicle, incompletely assembled motor vehicle, a registered trailer or a side car, vehicle towed for purposes of delivery and to the nearest filling station or garage, no vehicle shall be drawn or towed by any other motor vehicle.
 A driver of a vehicle shall not • Sound the horn needlessly or continuously or more than necessary to ensure safety.
 • Sound the horn in silence z20s.
 A driver of a motor vehicle and every other person using the road shall obey every direction given whether by signal or otherwise a police officer, or by notice, traffic sign or signal fixed or operated.
 The driver of a motor vehicle moving behind another vehicle shall keep at a sufficient distance from that other vehicle to avoid collision if the vehicle in front should suddenly slow down or stop.
 No driver of a vehicle shall apply brake abruptly unless it is necessary to do so for safety reasons.
 On mountain roads and steep roads, the driver of a motor vehicle travelling down hill shall give precedence to a vehicle going uphill wherever the road is not sufficiently wide to allow the vehicle to pass each other freely without danger, and stop the vehicle to the side of the road in order to allow any vehicle proceed in uphill to pass.
 obstruction of driver, driver of a motor vehicle shall not allow any person to stand or obstruct the driver or allow anyone to place anything in manner or position as to hamper his control of the vehicle.
 speed to be restricted when passing or meeting procession, troops or police on the march, when workmen doing road repairs, the driver of a motor vehicle shall drive at a speed not exceeding 25 Km an hour.
 A driver when driving a tractor shall not carry or allow any person to be carried on tractor.
 A drive of goods carriage shall not carry in the drivers cabin more numbers of persons than that is mentioned in the registration certificate and shall not carry passengers for hire or reward.
 no person shall drive in any public place any motor vehicle which is loaded in a manner likely to cause danger to any person in such a manner that the load or any part thereof of anything extends laterally beyond the body or to the rear or in height beyond the permissible limit.
 Except for the fuel and lubricants necessary for the use of the vehicle, no explosive highly inflammable or otherwise dangerous substance, shall be carried on any public service vehicle.
 No driver of a motor vehicle shall cause the vehicle to be driven backward without first satisfying himself that he will not thereby cause danger or undue inconvenience to any person or in any circumstances, for any greater distance or period of time than may be reasonably necessary in order to turn the vehicle round.
 A person driving a vehicle shall always carry with him his driving license,certificate of registration, certificates of taxation and certificate of insurance of the vehicle and in case of transport vehicle the permit and fitness certificate,also shall on demand by officer produce the documents for inspection.
 driving without license is punished with 500 rupees.
 driving with expired license is punished with 500 rupees.
 driving without registration two wheeler is punished with 1000 rupees.
 driving without registration four and three wheeler is punished with 2000 rupees.
 failed to produce driving license is punished with 200 rupees.
 the owner driving without insurance is punished with 2000 rupees.
 the driver not owner driving without insurance is punished with 300 rupees.
 driving without "L" sing is punished with 200 rupees.
 sale or alternation of trailer without a valid permission is punished with 1000 rupees.
 fail to produce documents within fifteen days of demand in writing is punished with 200 rupees.
 fancy number plate is punished with 1000 rupees.
 number plate is not visible is punished with 200 rupees.
 registration number plate or letters not as per measurement is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without helmet is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving while talking on mobile phone is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without seatbelt is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving in no entry is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving with triple seat is punished with 200 rupees.
 reversing without precaution is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving with excess passengers is punished with 200 rupees.
 obstruction to driver is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving "U" turn on heavy traffic road is punished with 200 rupees.
 turning without direction is punished with 200 rupees.
 not slowing down on zebra crossing or junction is punished with 200 rupees.
 violating trafic signs is punished with 200 rupees.
 driver is unfit to drive physically or mentally is punished with 500 rupees.
 overtaking from left is punished with 500 rupees.
 not showing signal while slowing down is punished with 200 rupees.
 no give way is punished with 200 rupees.
 lane cutting is punished with 200 rupees.
 wrong side driving is punished with 200 rupees.
 overtaking obstruction is punished with 200 rupees.
 lane violation is punished with 200 rupees.
 crossing the signal line 200 rupees.
 advertisement on vehicle without rto permission is punished with 200 rupees.
 using stickers, words or figures on non-transport vehicle is punished with 200 rupees.
 parked on pedestrian crossway is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without light is punished with 200 rupees.
 without parking light is punished with 200 rupees.
 honking in silence zone is punished with 200 rupees.
 honking unnecessarily is punished with 200 rupees.
 horn is musical or loud is punished with 500 rupees.
 vehicle producing undue noise is punished with 200 rupees.
 jumping signal is punished with 200 rupees.
 disobeying police order is punished with 500 rupees.
 racing and speeding is punished with 2000 rupees.
 dangerous driving is punished with 1000 rupees.
 road safety standards violation is punished with 500 rupees.
 unsafe transportation of goods is punished with 200 rupees.
 towing unsafely is punished with 200 rupees.
 tinted glass is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving witout mud guard is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without side mirror is punished with 200 rupees.
 tv or video set on dashboard is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without silence is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving with damaged tire is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without red reflector is punished with 1000 rupees.
 driving without red tail light is punished with 1000 rupees.
 unauthorized interference with vehicle is punished with 200 rupees.
 driving without wiper is punished with 200 rupees.
 refuse to take passangers by auto rickshaw is is punished with 50 rupees.
 refuse to take passangers by taxi or bus is punished with 200 rupees.
 shouting for passagers is punished with 200 rupees.
 parking causing obstruction to traffic is punished with 200 rupees.
 parked near a turn is punished with 200 rupees.
  parking on bridge is punished with 200 rupees.
 parking where parking is prohibited is punished with 200 rupees.
 drunk driving is punished with 2000 rupees and second offence is punished with 3000 rupees or imprisonment of 2 years or both.
 driving with hazardous or dangerous goods is punished with 3000 rupees.
 custody of vihicle wihout owner's consent is punished with 500 or 3 months of imprisonment or both.

